# Superkart_Sales_Prediction
## **Problem Statement**

### **Business Context**

A sales forecast predicts future sales revenue based on historical data, industry trends, and the status of the current sales pipeline. Businesses use the sales forecast to estimate weekly, monthly, quarterly, and annual sales totals. A company needs to make an accurate sales forecast as it adds value across an organization and helps the different verticals to chalk out their - future course of action. Forecasting helps an organization plan its sales operations by region and provides valuable insights to the supply chain team regarding the procurement of goods and materials.
An accurate sales forecast process has many benefits, which include improved decision-making about the future and the reduction of sales pipeline and forecast risks. Moreover, it helps to reduce the time spent in planning territory coverage and establishes benchmarks that can be used to assess trends in the future.

### **Objective**

They hired you as an MLOps Engineer, and your task is to build an automated MLOps pipeline with CI/CD to deliver accurate and reliable sales forecasts. The objective is to leverage historical sales data, industry trends, and the current pipeline status to predict weekly, monthly, quarterly, and annual revenues. By automating data ingestion, preprocessing, model training, evaluation, and deployment, the pipeline will ensure scalability, consistency, and minimal manual intervention. With CI/CD integration, forecasts will be continuously updated and seamlessly deployed, enabling different business verticals to plan sales operations by region, optimize supply chain procurement, reduce risks in sales pipelines, and establish benchmarks for future trend analysis. Ultimately, this solution will enhance decision-making, streamline planning efforts, and drive operational efficiency and business growth.

### **Data Description**

The data contains the different attributes of the various products and stores.
*   **Product_Id**:Unique identifier of each product, each identifier having two letters at the beginning, followed by a number
*   **Product_Weight**:Weight of each product
*   **Product_Sugar_Content**:Sugar content of each product, like low sugar, regular, and no sugar--
*   *Product_Allocated_Area*:Ratio of the allocated display area of each product to the total display area of all the products in a store
*   **Product_Type**:Broad category for each product like meat, snack foods, hard drinks, dairy, canned, soft drinks, health and . hygiene, baking goods, bread, breakfast, frozen foods, fruits and vegetables, household, seafood, starchy foods, others
*   **Product_MRP**:Maximum retail price of each product
*   **Store_Id**:Unique identifier of each store
*   **Store_Establishment_Year**: Year in which the store was established
*   **Store_Size**:Size of the store, depending on sq. feet, like high, medium, and low
*   **Store_Location_City_Type**:Type of city in which the store is located, like Tier 1, Tier 2, and Tier 3. Tier 1 consists of cities where the standard of living is comparatively higher than that of its Tier 2 and Tier 3 counterparts
*   **Store_Type**: Type of store depending on the products that are being sold there, like Departmental Store, Supermarket Type 1, Supermarket Type 2, and Food Mart
*   **Product_Store_Sales_Total**:Total revenue generated by the sale of that particular product in that particular store
